# Power BI Retail Data Analysis Project
This Power BI project uses sales data from 2023 to 2024 to analyze product performance, regional trends, and quarterly insights. The report is designed to help stakeholders make data-driven decisions based on historical sales data.

## Project Overview

### Objectives
- Provide insights into sales by product, region, and quarter.
- Identify sales trends across different time periods.
- Deliver actionable data for sales strategy optimization.
  
### Key Metrics
- Total Sales: Sum of revenue generated.
- Sales by Product: Total revenue per product.
- Monthly and Quarterly Trends: Comparison of sales over time.

### Dataset

#### Columns
|| Column Name ||	Description                                         ||
|| Customer_id ||	Unique identifier for the customer                  ||
| Day	        | Day of the order                                    |
| Month	      | Month in which the sale occurred                    |
| Order_date  |	Date when the order was placed                      |
| Order_id    |	Unique identifier for each sale order               |
| Product     |	Name of the product sold                            |
| Quantity    |	Number of units sold                                |
| Quarter	    | Quarter in which the sale occurred                  |
| Region      |	Region where the sale took place                    |
| Total_sales	| Total revenue from the sale (quantity * unit_price) |
| Unit_price  |	Price per unit of product                           | 
| Year	      | Year in which the sale occurred                     |

### Data Model

#### Relationships
Product Table: Includes unique product names to relate product information.

Date Table: Generated to support time intelligence and linked to order_date.

Customer Table: Provides customer details, linked via customer_id.

### Key Measures

- TotalSales = SUM(CleanSalesData1[TotalRevenue])
  
- Sales Percentage for each Product (Taking 'Gloves' as an example): Gloves Percentage = 
DIVIDE(
    CALCULATE(SUM('CleanSalesData1'[TotalRevenue]), 'CleanSalesData1'[Product] = "Gloves"),
    [TotalSales],
    0)
    
- TotalQuantity = = SUM(CleanSalesData1[Quantity])

### Data Transformations
- Order Date: Converted to date data type and used to create additional columns for month, quarter, and year.
- Date Table: Created a date table for easier time analysis.
- Total Sales Calculation: Added a custom column in Power BI to calculate total_sales based on quantity * unit_price.

### Visualizations

1. Monthly Trend
   
   Type: Line Graph
   
   Purpose: Shows the total revenue generated by each products in each month and for the respective years.
   
   Fields:
   
   X-axis: Month Name
   
   Y-axis: Total Revenue
   
2. Top 3 Performing Products by Region.
   
   Type: Matrix
   
   Purpose: Shows the top three (3) products with the highest revenue in each region.

3. Total Revenue Per Product.
   
   Type: Bar Chart
   
   Purpose: Shows the total revenue generated by each product.
   
   Fields:
   
   X-axis: Product
   
   Y-axis: Rank product by Revenue

4. Total Quantity Per Product.
   
   Type: Bar Chart
   
   Purpose: Shows the total quantity sold by each product.
   
   X-axis: Product
   
   Y-axis: Rank product by Quantity

5. Total Number Of Customers Per Region.
   
   Type: TreeMap
   
   Purpose: Shows the total number of customers per region.

6. Yearly Trend
   
   Type: Line Graph
   
   Purpose: Shows the total revenue generated by each region in the respective years provided in the data.
   
   Fields:
   
   X-axis: Region
   
   Y-axis: Total Revenue

7. Total Quantity Sold Per Region.
   
   Type: Donut Chart
   
   Purpose: Shows the total quantity of products sold in each region.

8. Monthly Revenue Per Region.
   
    Type: Table
   
    Purpose: Shows the total revenue generated monthly by each region. 

### Insights and Conclusion
- Product Performance: The analysis provides insights showing that the product 'Shoes' generated the highest revenue with a percentage total of 29.2% while the product 'Socks' generated the lowest revenue with a percentage total of 8.6%.

- Sales Overview: The analysis identifies the high-performing months and products

- Regional Performance: Pinpoints regions with the highest sales potential. The analysis shows that in regards to quantity of product sold, the 'South Region' sold the highest number of products. In regards to revenue, in the year 2023; the 'South Region' generated the highest revenue with a percentage total of 43.5% while the 'West Region' generated the lowest revenue with a percentage total of 8%.
  
  In the year 2024, the 'South Region' still came on top and generated the highest revenue with a percentage total of 45% while the 'East Region' generated the lowest revenue with a percentage total of 9.2%.
